# 4Dv11.8 drag and drop with list boxes header gotcha

Using new functionality [ drag and drop ](http://doc.4d.com/4D-Language-
Reference-11.6/Drag-and-Drop/Drag-and-Drop.300-206161.en.html) with 4D list
boxes?

Watch out for this: only the entire listbox object can be made
draggable/droppable from the actions pane of the object properties.

Even though a listbox is made of headers and column rows, a drag from cells to
the header will show as invalid at the UI level. If the user tries to drop it
on a header 4D will still go into the list box object method ` On drop ` form
event.

Moving the on drop code to the columns object method inside the list box has
no effect. Dropping a cell onto a header still throws the ` On drop ` event.

` OK ` is of no help either, it is 1 regardless of drop target. If [ ` Drop
position ` ](http://doc.4d.com/4D-Language-Reference-11.6/Drag-and-Drop/Drop-
position.301-206162.en.html) returns -1 seems to be the only indicator a
header row was dropped on. A 0 indicates dropping the cell beyond the
populated values.

Either way it is frustrating to program around. How about a ` Get current
target ` method, or change drag and drop properties function call. To state
that the current object method executing is the drop target is clearly not
granular enough to differentiate from data rows and header rows.

I should also note that returning -1 from ` On Drag Over ` event prevents any
code from executing ` On Drop ` and displays the invalid drop target icon.

    
    
    ` old way
    DRAG AND DROP PROPERTIES ( srcObject ; srcElement ; srcProcess )
    ` new way
    DRAG AND DROP PROPERTIES ( srcObject ; srcElement ; srcProcess ; tarObject ; tarElement ; tarProcess )
    

Posted in 4D | Tagged 4D , drag-and-drop , listbox | Leave a comment 


Original post date: November 17, 2010

Category: 4D