# Flex 4.0 drag-and-drop with skins

**UPDATE**

I put this at the top because I wanted to change the content of the below
post. Having worked on this code for a few days now, I became aware of several
short-falls in my assumptions.

1) You cannot extend skins. Which makes sense, a host component can have many
skins which have many states. Extending a skin would add confusion as to where
the states are defined for that “look and feel”.

2) Enabling drag and drop (while a UI interface function) on custom components
through their skins is asking to violate the DRY principle. Even though the
skin is now the top most layer of the <code>DragEvent</code> having different
skins breaks this model.

Unfortunately the drag and drop examples from adobe for flex 4 still show mx
components, but the [ differences page
](http://help.adobe.com/en_US/Flex/4.0/UsingSDK/WS7d89194359d2921c5daddfab1247d167dad-8000.html
"Adobe mx spark differences") seems to lean towards putting drag and drop
functionality in the spark component, not the skin class for the spark
component.

**ORIGINAL POST**

Another upgrade bit of confusion that has since been squared away.

In the original application, ` mx:Panels ` were dragged around on a `
mx:Canvas ` ; something similar to the [ Adobe Documentation examples
](http://help.adobe.com/en_US/Flex/4.0/UsingSDK/WS2db454920e96a9e51e63e3d11c0bf64595-7fed.html)

Both of these files were getting quite large as they handled look and feel,
interaction of the components, and all data. Now with flex 4.0, one priority
was to convert these two custom components to ` s:SkinnableContainer ` with
respective ` s:Skin ` classes.

This has cut our file sizes 20-50 percent as we try to follow a more MVC
architecture. However our drag-and-drop functionality ceased to work for these
custom components.

Long story short, drag events were now showing the ` s:Skin ` class as the `
dragInitiator ` for a ` DragEvent ` instead of the (in my mind) expected host
component of the skin.

This make sense from the point that the added skin is now the ‘top-most’ layer
of the component, but the question of where to put the custom drag management
code naturally presented itself.

Does it belong in the base “data” class (Component), or does it belong in the
“skin” class (ComponentSkin). Adding to the confusion is that both classes
accept ` dragEnter ` and ` dragDrop ` events (in addition to all other `
DragEvents ` .

Knowing that the outmost layer of the component is the skin, and attempting to
adhere to the MVC architecture, the decision is made to include all drag (ie
visual) effects in the  ` s:Skin  ` class.

Three links that helped me with this endeavor:  
[ saturnboy drag-and-drop ](http://saturnboy.com/2009/08/drag-and-drop-
flex-4/)  
[ evtimmy drag-and-drop skinning ](http://evtimmy.com/2010/01/drag-and-drop-
skinning-in-spark/)  
From above:  
[ Adobe drag and drop examples
](http://help.adobe.com/en_US/Flex/4.0/UsingSDK/WS2db454920e96a9e51e63e3d11c0bf64595-7fed.html)

Posted in flex | Tagged drag-and-drop , flex , skins | 2 Comments 


Original post date: April 14, 2010

Category: flex